>> Melkey: And
now we're going to declare our server.
So here we're going to do server, okay?
And we are going to bring in
a new package from the standard
library, which will be a net/http, okay?
And in here we're going to do
http.server and get the struck.
Okay, we define properties
our HTTP server here.
Okay, so
the first problem is gonna be the address.
This takes a string, I'm gonna do colon,
8080, okay, so now this,
this is going to run on port 8080,
we're gonna have our idle timeout, okay?
So I'll time it is the maximum
amount of time to wait for
the next request when
Keepalives are enabled.
Okay, so idle timeout,
we can make this to like time dot minute.
So it should bring in the time package for
you and
it will have two more timeouts,
our read timeout.
So it's the maximum duration for reading
the entire request, including the body.
I think these are always
kind of good to implement.
We can do ten times time.second, okay?
So the time packaging go
is a very powerful package.
It allows us to specify seconds,
minutes, hours, and even days.
And then we have our right timeout, we'll
this something like 30 times time.second,
cause if anything takes longer than this,
we know something is going on.
>> Melkey: Okay, so
this is a definition of our server.
Now, if you want to run our server,
we can do error equals server.listen,
and serve here.
That's a method on the server
struct which we just used.
We can say if our error
does not equal to nil,
now we can do app.logger.fatal and
it passes in the error like so, cool.
So let's go ahead,
open up another terminal,
let's go into CD, into that project.
Okay, if you run, go, run main.go,
if everything is working well,
you should see this statement.
This basically means our, we have a
running HTTP server, panda back, and back.
This doesn't really mean much, because
you can't do anything with it just yet.
Let's go ahead and change that,
let's go back to our code and
let's add a health check function.
Something that just tells, hey, yes, I'm
receiving your request, here's the answer.
We can do this very easily,
we can create a new function.
This is gonna be called our handler, and
it's gonna be called health check, okay?
Now because we know this function itself
is going to be called by our client,
this could be us in our second terminal,
could be someone calling it from a UI,
could be another service,
we don't know, we don't really care.
But because we know this function
is going to be an HTTP handler,
it has to have a specific signature and
by that,
I mean it's gonna accept two arguments.
The first one is typically WW and
it is HTTP response writer.
>> Melkey: And the response
writer is an interface used by
an HTTP handler to
construct an HTTP response.
So this is how we communicate back to
the caller if we have to, we use w.
The next argument is r, which is
gonna be a pointer to HTTP request.
A request represents an HTTP
request received by a server or
to be sent by a client.
So this is what we get,
this is what the caller is sending us.
And this has a bunch of metadata the ones
we typically are curious about are like
body, the body of the JSON or
whatever they want, right?
Or whatever they're sending us,
and then here,
all we're going to do is fmt.Fprint, okay?
Fprint is specifically used to
send back data to our HTTP client,
and we can pass in W our
HTTP responses writer, and
here we can just say status is available.
>> Melkey: Very simple function,
nothing too crazy.
Now my question is, how do we bind this?
We have some random function
called health check,
how do we bind it to our HTTP server?
The answer is using
the built-in HTTP function.
So we can use HTTP, okay?
And we can say handler func like so
or handlefunc, excuse me, handlefunc.
And handlefunc is going
to receive two arguments.
One is going to be the path of
where this function is, and
then the second argument is
what the function is itself.
So here, I'm gonna do /health, okay?
And in go,
functions are first class citizens,
meaning you can pass them as variables.
So we just declared our
function health check.
I'm gonna write this here, and
instead of actually calling it,
I'm just gonna remove those brackets and
just pass it as a very passive as a first
class citizen into our handle func.
>> Speaker 2: Why is R in the health
check, a pointer, but not W?
>> Melkey: Yeah, so
the reason why R is a pointers and not W,
R is a pointer because R is going
to contain data from our client.
And in this particular instance,
it doesn't matter, right?
But we'll see as we go on with the use of,
let's say, middleware,
the use of modifying what R could possibly
hold with the body and like encoding it.
We want it to be a pointer to persist the
data that they send versus data that we
respond with through R, whereas W doesn't
actually come from our client call.
W is something that we get
through our HTTP server,
our through our handlefunc though,
we are allowed to modify and
respond with whatever we want, so
it doesn't have to be a pointer.
It's going to essentially live in
the scope of func HealthCheck.
>> Melkey: So if we save this now,
go back, let's bring down and
go back up to run main.go,
you can see that we are running our app.
I have a typo here, and quickly open
up another window, I'm gonna zoom in.
And here we can do curl,
local host, 8080, and
then we called it what health
>> Melkey: Can see here,
now we have statuses available.
So this is pretty much at this point,
all green lights.
We now know we have a function in go or
a server that is connected to function and
we are able to call it.